---
layout: post
title:  "Maven生命周期备忘"
date:   2017-03-28 19:31:40 +0800
categories:
  - Java
tag:
  - maven
  - java

---

* content
{:toc}


> There are three built-in build lifecycles: `default`, `clean` and `site`.

##### Clean Lifecycle

* `pre-clean`	execute processes needed prior to the actual project cleaning
* `clean`	remove all files generated by the previous build
* `post-clean`	execute processes needed to finalize the project cleaning

##### Default Lifecycle
* `validate` validate the project is correct and all necessary information is available.
* `initialize` initialize build state, e.g. set properties or create directories.
* `generate-sources` generate any source code for inclusion in compilation.
* `process-sources` process the source code, for example to filter any values.
* `generate-resources` generate resources for inclusion in the package.
* `process-resources` copy and process the resources into the destination directory, ready for packaging.
* `compile` compile the source code of the project.
* `process-classes` post-process the generated files from compilation, for example to do bytecode enhancement on Java classes.
* `generate-test-sources` generate any test source code for inclusion in compilation.
* `process-test-sources` process the test source code, for example to filter any values.
* `generate-test-resources` create resources for testing.
* `process-test-resources` copy and process the resources into the test destination directory.
* `test-compile` compile the test source code into the test destination directory
* `process-test-classes` post-process the generated files from test compilation, for example to do bytecode enhancement on Java classes. For Maven 2.0.5 and above.
* `test` run tests using a suitable unit testing framework. These tests should not require the code be packaged or deployed.
* `prepare-package` perform any operations necessary to prepare a package before the actual packaging. This often results in an unpacked, processed version of the package. (Maven 2.1 and above)
* `package` take the compiled code and package it in its distributable format, such as a JAR.
* `pre-integration-test` perform actions required before integration tests are executed. This may involve things such as setting up the required environment.
* `integration-test` process and deploy the package if necessary into an environment where integration tests can be run.
* `post-integration-test` perform actions required after integration tests have been executed. This may including cleaning up the environment.
* `verify` run any checks to verify the package is valid and meets quality criteria.
* `install` install the package into the local repository, for use as a dependency in other projects locally.
* `deploy` done in an integration or release environment, copies the final package to the remote repository for sharing with other developers and projects.

##### Site Lifecycle

* `pre-site` execute processes needed prior to the actual project site generation
* `site` generate the project's site documentation
* `post-site` execute processes needed to finalize the site generation, and to prepare for site deployment
* `site-deploy` deploy the generated site documentation to the specified web server
